15-112 Term Project Deliverable 1
Project proposal
	The term project will be a coding game that reinforces concepts taught in 15-112 while incentivizing physical exercise. This will be done by creating a user interface such that the location of the character in the game changes in response to the changes in the location of the user’s face. 
	Using OpenCV, the location of the face will be detected with a webcam. Movements to the left will cause the character on the screen to the left, and vice versa for the opposite direction. Movements upward will cause the character on the screen upwards, and vice versa.
	When the character collides with a “gem” token, the character will have to answer a 112-related question, and keep answering the question until the question is answered correctly. There are other tokens that the character will attempt to dodge, such as the “pushup” token and the “situp” token. Each token represents a different exercise that the user needs to perform if they collide with this token. 
	The score increases as the user answers the question correctly. The user will have a designated time to answer a question depending on the difficulty of the question. There will be one level per topic covered in the course, from boolean arithmetic to recursion and FileIO. 
	The user’s answer will be stored in a file and will be evaluated to check for correctness. The algorithm that generates the question being asked will alternate between code tracing, reasoning over code, multiple choice, and free response. There will be a generic graphics template for each question format. 
	The game will require at minimum only the Tkinter graphics module and OpenCV. When the game is further developed, there may be time to add additional features such as adding concurrent multiplayer functionality, or adding 3D graphics with Panda3D.
Competitive analysis
	This is a mix of a coding and exercise game. There are an extensive number of coding games, and exercise games like WiiFit, but not many that combine both concepts together.
	There are many games geared towards teaching students to code, many of them interactive. They differ based on the purpose they serve; some are tutorials that teach algorithmic concepts, and those that teach code fluency. On KhanAcademy, there are JavaScript tutorials that teach students basic coding skills, like graphics and algorithms. Codecademy teaches students the syntax and basics of beginning programming and code fluency. CodeCombat is a graphics game that uses a creative graphics interface to teach students very basic coding through guiding the user in making method calls to an object. WiiFit is a video game that incorporates fitness into the gameplay so that it is required that the user get exercise while playing the video game.
	What sets CodeCardio apart is the dual functionality of having the user study for a CS course, as well as following Professor Kosbie’s advice of getting at least thirty minutes of quality exercise a day.